[Music]
ten mistakes you make when washing your
face you try to be diligent and wash
your face each and every day but could
you be walking away from that sink with
an even dirtier face what's worse some
of the things you're probably doing
during your daily face washing regimen
could actually be hurting your skin keep
watching to find out which mistakes to
avoid and what you should be doing
instead when it comes to your skincare
and be sure to click that subscribe
button and ring the notification bell to
join us on the bright side number 10
using products that aren't meant for
your skin type when it comes to skin
care the first thing you need to
determine is your skin type is it normal
dry oily combination or sensitive this
is really important because you have to
understand what your skin needs from you
in order to take care of it properly for
instance if you have dry skin but you're
using a product made for the oily or
type that cleanser is gonna dry your
face out even more the same is true the
other way around
products for dry skin don't suppress
sebum production like products for oily
skin too so someone with oily skin isn't
going to get what they need for their
skin type if they're using the wrong
products be sure to read the labels of
your skin care items and stick to the
ones that are going to suit your
specific type the best number 9 not
washing your hands before you wash your
face
most people start their skin care
regimen by splashing water onto their
face and rubbing it all over with their
hands the problem with this is that your
hands are covered in bacteria that can
make their way into your pores I mean
just think of all the things you touch
throughout the day doorknobs light
switches money your keyboard bone screen
oh and the list goes on that's why it's
easy to understand how an average of
3,200 bacteria from different species
accumulate on your hands if you don't
want those germs to spread to your face
wash your hands thoroughly with soap
before you begin washing your face
number eight washing your face with
water of the wrong temperature now it's
up to you to choose the temperature of
the water you used to wash your hands
but when it comes to your delicate
facial skin it's best to use lukewarm
water despite the common belief that
washing your face with hot water will
help open up your pores so that it'll be
easier for you to clean them hot water
will actually end up leaving your face
red blotchy and irritated it can even do
permanent damage to your blood vessels
if they burst due to the high
temperature hot water can also strip
your skin of its natural oils damaging
the protective outer layer however don't
be so quick to jump to the other end of
the spectrum and use ice-cold water cold
water doesn't do as good of a job when
it comes to washing away all the dirt
and build up that can accumulate on your
skin number seven not removing your
makeup first use my solar water and a
cotton ball to gently wipe the makeup
from your face it's best to spend ten
seconds on each eye and don't rub too
hard as the skin around the eye area is
very delicate
then find the perfect lukewarm water
temperature and use your fingertips to
ever so gently rub the facial
or into your skin using circular motions
going outwards this will help stimulate
blood flow keeping your skin looking
younger longer using facial scrubs too
frequently we all want to have clean
clear baby soft skin so what do we
assume that must involve well that's
right
scrubbing well when it comes to facial
cleansing scrubbing can do more harm
than good your face isn't a stovetop you
don't need to be so abrasive with it
your skin is a smart organ and it does a
good job of exfoliating dead skin cells
on its own shutting about 35,000 of them
each our excessive scrubbing will only
leave your skin irritated and inflamed
and can even lead to premature aging
another issue with scrubbing is that it
removes the protective layer of your
skin and can actually lead to more
oiliness to accommodate both the oily
and drier parts of your face it's best
to find an exfoliant that can do both
get rid of dead skin cells through
friction and dissolve dead skin cells
with the help of enzymes or acids
exfoliate 2 to 3 times a week if you
have normal or combination skin and only
once a week if you have dry or sensitive
skin number 5 drying your face with a
towel
wait what everybody drives their face
with a towel
hold on now just imagine for a second
how much bacteria can gather in a
bathroom those nasty little suckers love
nothing more than a moist environment
such as your towel so even if you have a
favorite towel dedicated especially to
drying your face you might wanna
reconsider using it at all not only can
it tell be too harsh for the gentle skin
of your face especially if it's made
from an abrasive material but it can
also just spread bacteria around and
leave your face even dirtier than before
you washed it instead of using a towel
use tissues paper towels or even toilet
paper yep you heard that correctly
unless your toilet paper resembles the
texture of a newspaper
ouch it's probably quite soft and the
best part is that it's clean and sterile
just be sure to use the side that's
facing the inside of the toilet paper
roll fan fYI if you're doing this at
home and you probably are since you're
washing your face remember the
importance of keeping the toilet seat
down so that bacteria don't fly around
the bathroom each time you flush but if
you happen to be in a public restroom
tear off the part that's hanging down
and use the toilet paper that's hidden
up in the dispenser number four using a
harsh toner now that your face is clean
dry and bacteria free it's time for
toner it's important to choose a toner
that doesn't have any harsh ingredients
and one that's aimed at taking care of
your particular skin type for example
avoid any toners that contain alcohol
since they'll leave your skin dehydrated
and irritated even if you have oily skin
don't be tempted alcohol does dry out
your skin but that doesn't mean less oil
in fact your skin will retaliate and
overcompensate for the dryness and start
pumping out even more sebum number three
skipping on the serum right after you've
done wiping your face with a toner
soaked cotton ball don't waste a second
before getting to the essential part of
skin care moisturizing before you reach
for your favorite face cream or lotion
apply a serum that's specifically
designed for your skin type serums are
almost magical when it comes to making
your skin healthier and that's because
they offer highly concentrated doses of
skin boosting elements thanks to their
lipid soluble base that allows active
ingredients to penetrate the epidermis
all this good stuff goes straight into
your skin letting you say goodbye to
problems like premature aging redness
dehydration and even acne number two for
getting about SPF
by now your facial skin must be feeling
like it's run a marathon and is in
desperate need of some downtime well
what could be more relaxing than
applying a smooth moisturizer it's up to
you to choose whether you want to use a
moisturizer that has SPF in it or if you
want to use SPF separately either way
protecting your skin from harmful UV
rays is an absolute must
even if problems like premature aging
and hyperpigmentation don't scare you
then the threat of getting skin cancer
should UV rays can find your skin even
if you can't find the Sun so make sure
to never skip applying SPF number 1 not
paying attention to the ingredients in
your skincare products when it comes to
which moisturizer to use you should
avoid those that contain oil and look
for facial moisturizers that are non
comedogenic this means that a product
won't clog your pores it'll also help to
look for moisturizers that contain
antioxidants such as green tea chamomile
pomegranate or licorice root as they'll
help your skin be and look healthy if
you have sensitive skin use a product
that has less than 10 ingredients is
hypoallergenic and fragrance free if you
have dry skin look for hyaluronic acid
and dimethicone in the ingredients list
as well as glycerin glycol proteins
lanolin mineral oil and petrolatum
now that your face is properly cleaned
toned protected and moisturized you
should be feeling like a million bucks
it's also important to remember that it
takes your skin 28 days to renew itself
so if you start using these tips right
away don't expect results overnight also
if you're looking for a healthy glow
from within consider drinking more water
and eating healthier foods cutting back
on sugar sodium and anything deep-fried
is a great start
what's your skincare regimen like share
some of your own tips in the comments
below don't forget to give this video a
like share it with your friends and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]